Multan Sultans made it to a fourth straight PSL final with a clinical and comfortable victory over Peshawar Zalmi in Thursday's Qualifier clash at the National Stadium in Karachi.
On a slow and scruffy surface, the Sultans bowlers kept Zalmi to an under-par total of 146 which the batters led by Yasir Khan chased down with seven wickets and nine balls to spare. Zalmi, however, will have another opportunity to make the final and meet the same opponents there.
Zalmi elected to bat after winning the toss in this crucial encounter, just as they had done in their last league match here three nights before. Then they had successfully defended 147 by two runs against Karachi Kings and with batting proving to get progressively difficult over the course of the game, they would have had reasons to believe a similar score plus the added factor of it being a playoff game could be competitive enough. But against a batting line-up not missing a beat thus far in the tournament, it proved to be far from competitive.

The chase was effectively sealed in the first 10 overs as the Sultans raced away to 80/1 with Yasir Khan getting to a 32-ball half-century. Forty-five of Sultans' runs came in the powerplay and while Mohammad Rizwan was a surprisingly passive participant, he ensured Zalmi didn't get any breakthroughs or new batters to apply the pressure on. While Yasir's innings brought volume, the back-up batting was impressive in averting a late wobble. Usman Khan scored a steady, unbeaten 36 while Iftikhar Ahmed hastened the end game with an 8-ball 22.
The victory, in many ways, was set up by a mid-innings squeeze by the Sultans bowlers after Zalmi had managed a 51-run powerplay. Babar Azam and Mohammad Haris made a sprightly opening after the loss of Saim Ayub in the first over but Haris' dismissal off the last ball of the sixth over bowled by Mohammad Ali was most inopportune. The spinners that came on to bowl next, Iftikhar Ahmed and Usama Mir, proceeded to apply the choke with the next four overs bringing only 16 runs.
At the end of the 13th over, Zalmi reached 97/3 with Babar and Tom Kohler-Cadmore looking to get a move on. It was then that Jordan came back into the attack after having conceded 12 in the one powerplay over he'd sent down. His fourth ball tailed into Babar and squeezed past the star batter's attempts to jam the bat down in defence. Bowled by a 143kph yorker, the well-set Babar was dismissed for a 42-ball 46 leaving new batters to confront a reversing ball.
Jordan went on to concede only 16 runs from his final three overs, bowling an array of yorkers and full-length deliveries. He added the wicket of the big-hitting Rovman Powell to deny Zalmi a finishing kick while leggie Usama finished with equally impressive figures of 2 for 16. Those two efforts meant Zalmi were pushed significantly behind the eight-ball, something they never recovered from.
Brief scores:Peshawar Zalmi 146/7 in 20 overs (Babar Azam 46; Usama Mir 2-16, Chris Jordan 2-28) lost to Multan Sultans 147/3 in 18.3 overs (Yasir Khan 54, Usman Khan 36*; Mehran Mumtaz 1-28) by 7 wickets
