After the collapse in the first innings by Vidrabha, it seemed inevitable that Mumbai would emerge as champions; they were virtually pre-ordained to lift the Ranji Trophy. However, that it would become so difficult for the 41-time champions was unexpected. Vidarbha broke every sweat, leaving no stone unturned and no sinew unstrained in their valiant resistance. In the end, Mumbai were deserving victors, but Vidarbha were glorious in defeat.
On the fifth and final day, Akshay Wadkar's side was gallantly led from the front by the skipper himself. Wadkar played a meticulous and disciplined inning in the visitors' pursuit of the near-impossible target. But in the end, Vidarbha found out that 538 was not just a steep mountain to climb but a cricketing version of Everest, fraught with dangerous crevasses along the way.
"The way they showed fight throughout, it would have been very easy for them to give up. The way they have been playing for the last 7-8 years has been great to see," Ajinkya Rahane, the victorious captain said, paying glowing tributes to the fighting spirit of the vanquished. Rahane's own contribution with the bat was minimal - 214 in eight games - but his leadership was very impactful.

As if it was scripted for him, Dhawal Kulkarni, the retiring Mumbai legend, heralded the 42nd Trophy for the team by cleaning up Vidarbha's last wicket, sparking wild revelry on and off the field. "It is quite memorable because you want to end your career on a high. I wasn't actually ready (to bowl that over). But then Ajinkya and Shardul Thakur asked me to bowl that over. It was quite a memorable game," Kulkarni said.
Kulkarani was playing in the sixth final of his 16-year career and won his fifth Ranji Trophy championship. The win must have smelt sweet but it did not come easy as did his first one in the 2008 final when Karnataka gave Mumbai strong resistance in Mysore. Mumbai had won that game by six runs with Kulkarni playing a crucial role in the final stage. On Thursday, they won by 169 runs but the contest was closer than the margin would suggest.
Mumbai were too resourceful who could be stopped. Wadkar admitted that the way Mumbai scored runs in the second innings was a lesson, pointing out the batting and partnerships between Rahane, Musheer and Shreyas Iyer. Rahane (73) and Iyer (95) scored fifties and Musheer scored a century (136).
"It was a final, so giving up and thinking anything negative had no scope at all. We were talking about winning only. (But) The way Mumbai batted in the second innings, they showed a lot of determination and courage. We tried to take wickets or create chances but they gave nothing for us to come back in the game," Wadkar said.
Resuming at 248 for five, Vidarbha showed a lot of gumption with Wadkar (102) and Harsh Dubey (65) batting with single minded determination to make the match of the final. They managed to frustrate the Mumbai bowlers and were unbeaten by the end of the first session of the final day. At lunch they were 333 for five and they went on to add 20 more runs on resumption to take the total to 353.
Their sixth wicket association yielded 130 runs but when Wadkar fell LBW to Tanush Kotian, the Vidarbha resistance disintegrated. Rahane employed short ball tactics through Tushar Deshpande to the lower order batsmen who failed to tackle it. In just 45 minutes into the second session, they folded, handing Mumbai their long-awaited championship which had last come in 2015.
"This means a lot to us. It's massive," Rahane said, admitting that the 42nd title took eight years coming but added that the 43rd will not take so long.
Team earns Rs 10 crore:
Immediately after the win, the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) announced Rs 5 crore for the Mumbai team matching the prize money that the BCCI gives to Ranji champions. Rahane & Co are thus richer by Rs 10 crores for the triumph.
"MCA president Amol Kale and Apex Council have decided to match the BCCI Ranji Trophy prize money. The MCA will pay an additional sum of Rs 5 crore to the winning Mumbai Ranji Trophy team. It has been a great year for the MCA as the association has won seven titles and we have made it to the knockout stage in all age groups in BCCI tournaments," MCA secretary Ajinkya Naik said.
