The situation surrounding Shreyas Iyer continues to confound the observers, with conflicting reports regarding his fitness and injury status emerging from various sources. While some reports have indicated that he might miss a few games at the beginning of the Indian Premier League (IPL), concerned authorities have asserted that his participation in the IPL is not in jeopardy. Curiously enough, though, Iyer did not take the field during Vidarbha's second innings on the fourth and fifth day of the just-concluded Ranji Trophy final.
"There is no cause for concern; he is fine and will be going to Kolkata for the pre-IPL camp in two days," stated Mumbai team manager Bhushan Patil. Kolkata Knight Riders officials have echoed this sentiment, stating that they have not received any information contradictory to Patil's assertion. However, neither Iyer nor his team has provided an official statement regarding his fitness status.
Following his innings of 95 in the Ranji final's second innings, Iyer reported experiencing back pain and underwent scans. Sources within the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) have told Cricbuzz that the scan reports are inconclusive, and the exact diagnosis will be known once the MCA receives communication from the National Cricket Academy (NCA) in Bengaluru.

Either way, it is now clear Iyer had a dodgy back when he missed the Ranji Trophy quarterfinal, although the NCA did not detect any issues at that point of time. His decision to skip the quarterfinal resulted in him being left out of the central contract list, with all-round vilification that he was allegedly prioritising the IPL over domestic cricket. Despite missing the quarterfinal due to his back, Iyer participated in the semifinal and the final of the Ranji Trophy.
"Iyer was in the Mumbai team to play the semifinal. Iyer had also played a Ranji game as asked by the Indian team management just before this Test (India vs England) series started. So it is not as if he has refused to play the Ranji Trophy at all. He did miss the quarterfinal but that was also the time he had informed the team management of his inability to play the third Test match due to some pain in his back if he batted for some length of the time," Sunil Gavaskar wrote last month in Mid-Day defending Iyer.
The latest on the player, though, is a totally different version. There are suggestions that the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) might reconsider its decision to exclude Iyer from the contract list, with some chatter that he may be reinstated. When questioned about this, a senior BCCI official stated that no decision has been reached, but he did not dismiss the speculation.
