The stop clock rule, currently undergoing trial, is set to become a permanent feature in international cricket, with its implementation during the upcoming Twenty20 World Cup in June approved. Introduced by the International Cricket Council (ICC) on an experimental basis last December, this rule will now be incorporated into the standard playing conditions of the game.
This rule, necessitating the display of an electronic clock between overs, will not be applied in Twenty20 Internationals but also all white-ball cricket, including One-Day Internationals (ODIs). Needless to emphasise, its primary purpose is to ensure the timely completion of the matches.
According to the rule, the fielding team will have 60 seconds between overs, during which they must commence the next over before the countdown reaches zero. This 60-second countdown will occur between each over of a T20I or an ODI, with penalties for every breach.

The responsibility of enforcing this rule lies with the umpires with the third umpire switching on the timer. The on-field umpires will issue two warnings to the fielding side before imposing a five-run penalty for a third offense or every subsequent violation. The decision to utilize the timer rests with the umpires, who also have the authority to decide whether delays are caused by batsmen, DRS calls, or any unforeseen circumstances.
The rule was initially trialled by the ICC from December 2023. The trial period is supposed to end in April but in the meanwhile the ICC and its cricket committee are believed to have found merit in making the rule permanent. It will now be a universal rule for every ICC white ball game.
The rule was approved at the ongoing series of meetings of the ICC in Dubai.
The ICC Board and the all powerful IBC board of the ICC will meet on Friday. Cricbuzz understands that so far no discussion on the Champions Trophy took place. Whether the board members will discuss the issue is a point of interest mainly because the designated host of the tournament is Pakistan and the expected refusal of India to tour the country, a decision that resulted in a hybrid model for last year's Asia Cup.
