Rishabh Pant's return to competitive cricket during IPL 2024 promises to be one of the most highly-anticipated events of the upcoming season. Having suffered potentially life-threatening injuries in the car crash in December 2022, the wicket-keeper batter spent the whole of 2023 in rehabilitation, thereby missing out on some of India's biggest assignments, including a ODI World Cup at home.
Earlier this week, the BCCI declared Pant fit to play as both batter and wicket-keeper, strengthening the case around the left-hander's future. With just over a week left for IPL 2024, Pant couldn't help expressing his excitement at returning to Delhi Capitals.
"Really excited but at the same time, nervous also," said Pant at the Club Prairie Fire podcast that also featured former cricketers Adam Gilchrist and Michael Vaughan.

"When you are sitting outside, talking and having fun, it's okay but once you take the field, it's a different atmosphere altogether. Little nervous but I think that comes with the game, part and parcel of the process. Excited because I don't know how I'm going to be on the field. Having fun each and everyday, thinking positive."
Pant's return will bolster Delhi Capitals who endured a horrid 2023 season where they finished second from bottom on the points table. Apart from getting their skipper back, DC also had an efficient outing at the auction table this year. They added Harry Brook and Tristan Stubbs to their batting options, though Brook has now opted out due to personal reasons. Pant reckoned he was happy with how the think-tank went about business at the mini-auction ahead of the upcoming season.
"I think mostly I'm pleased with it (DC squad) because in mini-auction, you can't do much about it because whatever goal you have, you have to work around it. That's the only thing you can do. Some setbacks may come but then setbacks are part of life. Really excited about the squad."
A good IPL will certainly strengthen Pant's chances of returning to the national set up, particularly with the T20 World Cup scheduled in June. The wicket-keeper batter's fitness will be in the spotlight during the season, given the toll that keeping wickets can take on any individual, let alone someone who is making a comeback from a gruesome injury.
"As a player, you want to get back to international cricket but at the same time, I don't want to think too much. It is in the back of my mind but whatever is in my plate right now, I have to think about it right now. Keeping it simple because the world that we live in is complicated anyway. So, keeping things simple is the best way I think about it. One thing I missed is being around my team and having fun with teammates."
Known for his explosive ways at the crease, Pant's gameplay has come a long way since his U19 days in 2016. A player who loved to get going from the word go with jaw-dropping strokes that sometimes defied the rule books, Pant's ability to strike a balance between dynamism and practicality is something that earned him rewards in recent years, notably during India's historic Test series win in Australia during 2021-22. When asked about how the change happened, Pant went in detail to explain about the need to keep things simple.
"I think it's a part of the learning process. It didn't come overnight. You got to figure out how to make it happen, that's also a part of it because when things go south in that, everyone blames you like crazy. You have to believe in yourself because nobody else is there. Good part I did is not to think too much. See, you don't have to think too much about playing in a certain way, yes you have to be positive but you have to just see the ball and play the ball. Mindset is positive. End of the day, you have to play the ball. You can't push yourself to play at a ball whether right or wrong, just because you have to play a certain way. Cricket tells you how to play. You can't decide that you can only play this way and enter the field."
Another topic of conversation with the swashbuckling Indian star was England's gung-ho approach to Test cricket. England's style of play under Ben Stokes and Brendon McCullum had been entertaining while also giving the side a reasonable streak of successes until the 1-4 drubbing in India. Even during those five Tests, the visitors had their moments, but McCullum was the first one to admit after the series that his side's philosophy might need a bit of tempering in the long run. Pant felt that India did well not to get overawed by 'Bazball'.
"We aren't thinking about it (Bazball) too much. As a team, you have to find your own strengths. Yes, you have to take the knowledge about how they are playing but at the end of it, you have to focus on your own strengths and give your best shot instead of thinking about the other team," Pant opined.
Having had considerable success during the Australian series in 2021-22, Pant had some words of advice for England ahead of their Ashes campaign Down Under next year.
"I would say that as a batter, instead of just punching the ball, I'd just say to cut the ball. If you punch the ball, you have more chance of getting the edge but the cut shot is a safer shot to play there. It's the best place to play the cut shot and pull shots. They bowl mostly back of the length, they don't bowl the fuller ones on the stumps, they ball it wider line. You'll feel it is in the driving zone but generally it will be a bit wider. I think in England, punching the ball would be a better option due to their conditions but in Australia, it's better to cut the ball than punch the ball."
Pant also felt that England needed extra pace in their bowling to have success against Australia. Given the nature of pitches in the country, extra pace has been a go-to for visiting teams, notably India who won the series twice there in the last five years. Recently, West Indies managed to cause an upset on the back of a strong fast-bowling show.
"I think we need a bit more pace bowling in Australia, 130s is fresh for batting. Even if he is bowling here and there, it's fine but you need bowlers in the 140s in Australia."
