USA captain Monank Patel notched up a breathtaking match winning hundred turning out for Mid Atlantic Zone against the East Zone. A bit slow to get off the blocks, Monank crawled to 20 off 26 deliveries but unleashing himself after the 9th over to pile up 90 more runs off the next 41 deliveries. His stupendous knock was laced with 6 sixes and 8 boundaries as Mid Atlantic almost batted the East Zone out of the game with a mounting target of 192. A listless East Zone capitulated for 122 in return.
Earlier in the day, Mid Atlantic toppled a power packed South West Zone with a comfy 7 wicket win. Jessy Singh made early inroads in the South West innings with the scalp of two big fishes in Andries Gous and Unmukt Chand. Nitish Kumar's resolute 57 and Milind Kumar's quick cameo of 48 lifted the South West to 145. Jaskaran Malhotra's blistering 48 off 34 deliveries kept the Mid Atlantic ahead of the asking curve despite a couple early setbacks. Harmeet Singh's timely wicket of Malhotra kept the South West in the hunt but young Gauranshu Sharma's dogged half century saw the East home with an over to spare.
A battered South West turned their fury towards Mid West with a resounding 7 wicket victory as the Mid West batsmen failed to turn up to the occasion. Fahad Babar and company meandered along aimlessly right through their innings, strolling to 108 in 20 overs. Andries Gous and Shayan Jahangir failed to kick on after a breezy start to the South West innings. Smit Patel and Milind Kumar had the South West canter home in the 15th over with an unbeaten stand of 56.

Shadley Van Schalkwyk's triple strikes rocked the East Zone ship with a serious jolt. The nagging West Zone spinners kept the choke on for the East batsmen. East's dreary approach with the bat helped them post a measly 109 off their 20 overs. Van Schaklwyk came back to play a steady but defining knock of 19 off 24 deliveries alongside a rampant Sanjay Krishnamurthy (34 off 24) to get the West safely over the line in the. Penultimate over.
West Zone failed to sustain their winning momentum after South nearly snatched defeat from the jaws of victory. Hardik Desai and Corne Dry had the West in the dock with 3 wickets under 7 overs. Nisarg Patel counter punched in fine style with a 33 ball 46 and aided by Zia Shehzad's unbeaten 42, West posted a tricky challenge of 142 on a 60 over old surface. Steven Taylor's brilliance took the conditions totally out of the picture. Taylor launched a scathing attack on the West bowlers with 5 towering sixes and 8 fours for his commanding 82 off 60 deliveries. Despite Taylor's heroics, West refused to allow South to run away with the game as the game boiled down to final ball with scores even. Hanchard Hamilton held his nerve to clobber the final ball to the midwicket fence.
Earlier, South Zone pipped Mid West Zone by 23 runs thanks to an allround show by captain Aaron Jones. Jones stitched a stand of 70 with Steven Taylor. Jones compiled a cautious 45 before Corne Dry's quickfire 29 off 13 deliveries bolstered South to a respectable total pf 140. Manav Patel broke the back of Mid West batting line up with 2 wickets in his first two overs. Mid West failed to recoup from the early stutter as Jones penetrative leg spin defused the Mid West drab charge towards South's total.
